# CS-370 <br /><br />
<i>What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?</i><br />
Computer scientists are problem solvers by nature. They see a set of circumstances that represent obstacles towards achieving some goal or other on a computer, and they build the code and infrastructure needed in order to solve that problem or meet that need. The modern world is full of problems that need solving. One example that many companies face is that they need an efficient way to track inventory and know when to reorder supplies. Computer scientists help with this by creating programs that track incoming and outgoing supplies and provide reports or even automated re-orders. Computer scientists generally are concnerned with taking in data and converting it to something actionalbe, or an action itself.<br />
Why computer science work matters is a very simple and very complex response. The world is basically run on computers now, and so computer scientists run large portions of the infrastructure that the world relies on. Take power plants as an example. Computers run so much of what goes on in a power plant from distribution cutoffs to billing to monitoring generators for anomolies and safety. Without computers, this sort of thing could be done manually most likely, but it would cost a lot more in time and labor to get the same, or even less efficient, results. Computer science work matters because it enhances virtually any other sort of work or entertainmnet.<br /><br />
<i>How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist?</i><br />
As a computer scientist, I think it is important to approach a problem in a manner which includes reducing the issue to the primary goal and the objects that are needed to take the user or program from the initial state to the terminal state. So, for example, given the problem I outlined above about inventory tracking, I would dissect the problem as groups of objects and processes to the greatest degree possible. I would see that the inventory system as a whole could be an object, each inventory item could be an object, and the processes could be add item and subtract item to keep things simple at first. If all we care about is the number of items in the inventory and not why they are being subtracted, this could help us build a good model. Other considerations are helpful to plan out in advance as well.<br />
The point with that example is that, as a computer scientist, you need things broken into small chunks. Each process in a computer program generally can only output one item. I was in a graphics class and I made some very large methods for rendering and animating objects in C++. These methods took about 12 parameters each, but they could still only output one object. Granted, that object can have many properties updated in the same funciton, but everything should be as granular and reusable as possible. We don't want a function that is good for updating quantity that can only work on apples in the inventory, for example, and then have to have a whole new one for oranges. Everything should be grouped, classed, and the functions should be specific enough to do the job yet general enough to accommodate any subclass within the parent class.<br /><br />
<i>What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization?</i><br />
This is a tough question, sometimes, because the answer largely depends on what the end user wants and what the organization wants. In general, my ethical duty to my orgainzation is to do an honest day's work day in and day out. It is also my duty to point out potential problems as soon as they are spotted, with particular attention to the ethical problems. The duty to the user, I believe, is to be as transparent as possible and to only keep what data is absolutely necessary. If a user is informed, and the data kept actually serves a real purpose (and I do not include making more money for the organization by selling that data a real purpose), then data should be retained until it is no longer needed. It would also be my ethical duty to the end user to blow the whistle on an organization if I had exausted all available channels to rectify an ethical breach and was met with no action at all. This would have to be a serious matter, like an algorithm directing suicidal people to links on ways to commit suicide or something akin ot this that can cause real-world harm. Then, the duty to the public safety and common good trumps a confidentiality agreement.
